# adversarial-search-mancala.ai
Mancala =======  This is a Mancala game that allows a human to play against an intelligent computer.  The computer chooses its moves using a minimax lookahead and alpha-beta pruning.   Rules of Mancala:  * Object:  Two players compete against each other trying to get as many stones as possible before one of the players clears his or her side of all its stones.  + Set Up:  The players sit facing each other with the board between them.  Each player is allocated the row of bins closest to him or her and a larger scoring bin, called a mancala, to the right.  Four stones are placed in each of the 12 smaller bins.  The players decide who goes first by flipping a coin.  + Play:  The first player picks up all the stones in any of his or her six bins.  He/she then places, consecutively, one stone in each bin to the right (counterclockwise) around the board, including his/her own mancala, but not the opponent’s mancala.  If the player places the last stone in his/her own mancala, he/she is done with their turn.  If the last stone is placed in an empty bin on the player’s own side, he/she gets all the stones in the opponent’s bin directly across from his/her bin (if there are any stones). All captured stones plus the capturing stone go in the player’s mancala.    + Winning:  The game ends when one of the players runs out of stones in his/her small bins.  When this happens, the other player gets to place any stones remaining in his/her bins into his/her mancala.  The winner is the one with the most stones in his/her mancala. # Mancala Alpha-Beta Pruning and Minimax (Python) &lt;br>  Python files: &lt;p> 1. MancalaGame.py = creates Mancala board, defines game moves, defines game rules &lt;/p> &lt;p> 2. MancalaGUI.py = creates visual of game board &lt;/p> &lt;p> 3. Player.py = creates different player options &lt;/p>  Player options:  &lt;p> HUMAN = human as the player &lt;/p> &lt;p> RANDOM = random legal moves &lt;/p> &lt;p> MINIMAX = uses minimax algorithm to choose next move&lt;/p> &lt;p> ABPRUNE = uses alpha-beta pruning algorithm to choose next move&lt;/p> &lt;p> NYG316 = most optimal player using ab-pruning &lt;/p>  To play: &lt;p>#define players (can choose any above player options)&lt;/p> &lt;p>>>>player1=Player(1, Player.HUMAN)&lt;/p> &lt;p>>>>player2=Player(2, Player.HUMAN)&lt;/p> &lt;p>>>>startGame(player1, player2)&lt;/p> &lt;p>#if you do not have another human to play against, choose one of the computer player options&lt;/p>
